the provisional agenda for this meeting
is the situation in the Middle East
including the Palestinian question the
an agenda is
adopted in accordance with rule 37 of
the council's provinal rules of
procedure I invite the represent
representatives of Israel and Yemen to
participate in this meeting it is so
decided
I propose that the council invite the
permanent Observer of the Observer state
of Palestine to the United Nations to
participate in the meeting in accordance
with the provision rules of procedure
and previous practice in this
regard there be no objection it is so
decided the security Council will now
begin its consideration of item two of
the agenda
members of the council have before them
document
s224
254 the text of the draft resolution
submitted by Algeria Ecuador Guyana
Japan Malta mosambik Republic of Korea
Sierra Ron Slovenia and
Switzerland the council is ready to
proceeded proceed to the uh the council
is ready to proceed to the vote on the
draft the resolution before
it yes I now give the floor to those
members of the council who wish to make
statements before the
vote I give the floor to the
representative of
mozambik Mr
President I have the
honor to introduce this draft
resolution on behalf of the 10 elected
members of the security
Council
namely Algeria Ecuador Guyana Japan
Malta Republic of Korea Sierra Leon
Slovenia
Switzerland and my own country
mozambik we wish to commend the
presidency of Japan for convening this
meeting in order to take action on this
important resolution on the Middle East
including the Palestinian
question we
express our deep appreciation to all
members of this Council for their
efforts and inputs on this draft
resolution aimed at ending the
catastrophic situation in the G Gaza
Street Mr President the situation in
Gaza is a matter of grave concern to the
entire International
Community indeed the escalation of the
conflict in the Gaza strep and its
catastrophic consequences are a clear
threat to International Peace and
Security in this context
the
E10 felt compelled to table this draft
resolution before
you the 15 members of this
Council individually and
collectively have a mandate under the
charter to work for the maintenance of
interational peace and
security and their
actions impact the entire International
Community this is the strong conviction
that led to the drafting of the text
that we are considering this
morning this
Council has been consistently
unanimous in its agreement on the
obligation of the
parties in Conflict to respect
international law including
International humanitarian law and
international human rights
law
d10 have always supported the call for
an immediate sisire in Gaza as a
fundamental
step for this
reason and in respect for the holy month
of
Ramadan we have proposed the present
resolution that demands an immediate
ceasefire during this second period
leading to a permanent and sustainable
uh
ceasefire at the same time the draft
resolution demands the immediate and
unconditional release of all
hostages and
emphasizes that humanitarian access
must be allowed to address their medical
and other humanitarian
needs these have been among our key
demands for
weeks the draft resolution further
demands that the parties comply with
their obligations under international
law as we said before including
International humanitarian law and human
rights
law the draft
resolution also
emphasizes the need for the parties to
abide by the pertinent resolutions
adopted by this Council including
resolutions
2712 and
2720 of
the10
have a
consultative have adopted a consultative
approach during the negotiation process
of this
text we have
consulted
extensively and in good
faith with all members of this Council
in a Frank open and flexible manner
with the aim of achieving a text that
addresses the situation in
Gaza the adoption of this draft
resolution will certainly be another
important
step uh this Council can build upon to
comprehensively address the crisis in
Gaza given the utmost urgency of the
situ situation we call upon all members
of this
Council all and each member of this
Council to vote in favor of this
resolution while this resolution is
crucial it is essential that we continue
working towards a comprehensive
ceasefire and a lasting peace in the
region I thank you Mr President I thank
the representative of mosambik for their
statement I give the floor to the
representative of Russian
Federation um stunned and disappointed
about the way the work on the draft
resolution in the last 24 hours was
done the fact that the word permanent in
op1 uh relating to a ceasefire is
proposed to be replaced by a more weak
wording was something we learned about a
little more than an hour before the
beginning of the meeting that is
unacceptable we all received
instructions for the vote on the text
that contained the word permanent and we
believe that that is of fundamental
importance all of the remaining wording
uh leaves too broad an area for
interpretation which could could allow
Israel to resume its military operation
in the Gaza Strip at any moment
following the expiry of the
ceasefire which we today hope will be
established in order to avoid this
scenario we would like to make an oral
Amendment to the text and return the
word permanent in op1 in so doing it
would read as it read in the previously
issued resolution namely the Fs in
immediate ceasefire for the months of
Ramadan respected by all parties leading
to a permanent sustainable ceasefire and
also demands the immediate and
unconditional release of all hostages as
well as uring humanitarian access to to
address their medical and other
humanitarian needs and further demands
that the parties comply with their
obligations under international law in
relation to all to all persons they
detain I thank the representative of
Russian Federation for their
statement members of the council have
before them a proposed amendment
submitted by Russian Federation to the
text of the draft resolution contained
in the document
s224
254 submitted by Nigeria Ecuador Guyana
Japan Malta mosambik Republic of Korea
Sion Slovenia and
Switzerland rule 36 of the council's
provisional rules of procedure States
inter arer the
following when an amendment adds to or
deletes from the text of a motion or D
draft resolution that Amendment shall be
voted on
first accordingly I intend to put the
proposal proposed amendment to the vote
first will those in favor of proposed
amendment please raise their raise their
hand
against
abstentions
the result of the Voting is as follows
three votes in favor one vote against 11
abstentions the proposed amendment has
not been adopted having fail to obtain
the required number of
votes
I shall put the draft resolution to the
vote
now will those in favor of the draft
resolution contained in document
s224
254 please there raise their hand
those are
against
abstention the result of the Voting is
as follows 14 votes in favor
zero vote against one
abstention the draft resolution has been
adopted at resolution
[Applause]
2024 I I now give the floor to those
members of the council who wish to make
statements after the vote
I give the floor to the representative
of
Algeria thank you Mr
President I would like to
thank all the council members for their
flexibility and the constructive way
that allowed us
today to
adopt this long awaited
resolution a resolution that calls for
an immediate ceasefire in the Gaza
Strip in order to put an end to the
massacres
that unfortunately are still
ongoing over the past five years five
months over the past five months the
Palestinian
people has suffered
greatly this blood
bath has continued for far too
long it is Our obligation to put an end
to this blood bath before it is too
late
finally
finally the Security
Council is shouldering its respons
responsibility as the primary organ
responsible for maintaining
International Peace and
security it is finally
responding to the calls of the
International
Community these repeated
calls not only from the International
Community but also from the Secretary
General Mr Antonio
gues and once again we renew our support
to the Secretary General for his Noble
position and for his
support to this just
cause despite the heinous
campaigns that were were launched
against him Mr
President
when we
voted on the draft resolution tabled by
Algeria last
month we
promised that we will spare no
effort we will
continue to work hard to make sure that
the Security Council is abiding by its
full
responsibility we also
promised that we
will come
back once
again to knock on the doors of the
security
Council and here we are
today along
onside all 10 elected member states to
convey a clear message to the
Palestinian
people this message is as
follows the International
Community in its
entirety
did not abandon
you feels your
suffering it did not abandon you Mr
President adopting today's
resolution is only the
[Music]
beginning to meet the aspiration ations
of the Palestinian
people we look forward to the
commitment and the compliance of the
Israeli occupying
power with this resolution for them to
put an end to the bloodbath without any
conditions to
and the suffering of the Palestinian
people it is the
responsibility of the security Council
to ensure the implementation of the
provisions of this
resolution in conclusion Mr
President I reaffirm that
Algeria
will return once again before the
security
Council under the instructions of his
Excellency the president of the
Republic to make sure that Palestine
returns to its
natural status as a full-fledged
member a sovereign member states of the
United Nations I thank
you I thank the representative of
Algeria for their statement I give the
floor to the representative of the
United
States thank you Mr
President at the top I want to express
my deepest condolences to the families
and loved ones of last week's terrorist
attack in
Moscow we condemn terrorism in all its
forms and stand in solidarity with the
Russian people and grieving the loss of
life from this horrific
event colleagues today this Council
spoke out in support of the ongoing
diplomatic efforts led by the United
States Qatar Egypt to bring about an
immediate and sustainable
ceasefire secure the immediate release
of all hostages and help alleviate the
tremendous suffering of Palestinian
civilians I in Gaza who are in dire need
of protection and life-saving
humanitarian
assistance the United States fully
supports these critical objectives in
fact they were the foundation of the
resolution we put forward last week a
resolution that Russia and China vetoed
but colleagues the United States support
for these objectives is not simply
rhetorical we're working around the
clock
to make them real on the ground through
diplomacy because we know that it is
through only through diplomacy that we
can push this agenda forward we're
getting closer to a deal for an
immediate ceasefire with the release of
all hostages but we're not there yet now
let's be clear a ceasefire could have
come about months ago if Hamas had been
willing to release hostages months ago
instead M continues to stand in the way
of peace to throw up roadblocks cow in
tunnels beneath Gaza cities and behind
uh under civilian infrastructure and
hide among the civilian
population so today my ask to members of
this Council and to member states in
every region of the world is this speak
out and demand unequivocally that Hamas
accepts the deal on the table
now I hope I'm wrong I really do but I
don't expect that from Russia and China
especially because they still can't
bring themselves to condemn hamasa
terrorist attacks on October
7th just last week Russia and China
vetoed a resolution that condemned this
horrific attack a resolution the vast
majority of this Council supported they
have shown time and time again that they
are not actually interested in advancing
aor a peace through diplomatic efforts
nor for all their rhetoric are they
interested in making any meaningful
contributions to humanitarian efforts
instead they are using this devastating
conflict as a political codo to try to
divide this council at a time when we
need to come together it is deeply
deeply cynical and we should all see
through
it colleagues we appreciated the
willingness of members of this Council
to take some of our edits and improve on
this
resolution still certain key edits were
ignored including our requests to add a
condemnation of Hamas and we did not
agree with everything in the resolution
for that reason we were unfortunately
not able to vote yes however as I've
said before we fully support some of the
critical objectives in this non-binding
resolution and we believe it was
important for the council to speak out
and make clear that our ceasefire must
any ceasefire must come with the release
of all hostages indeed as I've said
before the only path to a durable end to
this conflict is the release of all
hostages critically a ceasefire and the
release of hostages will allow much more
humanitarian Aid to get into Gaza at a
time when famine is looming large and
provide an opportunity to work toward a
sustainable cessation of hostilities
toward a future where Hamas can no
longer threaten Israel and never repeat
October 7th and no longer control Gaza
and use civilians as Shields toward a
future where Palestinians and israelies
live side by side in peace in two
Democratic states of their own something
that will never happen with Hamas a
terrorist organization dedicated to the
destruction of Israel and the killing of
JW
a terrorist organization this body still
fails to condemn controlling hamama uh
controlling Gaza colleagues we meet
during the holy month of Ramadan this
should be a reason a season of Peace for
Muslim communities around the world just
as October 7th simhat Torah should have
been a day of peace for Jewish
communities this resolution rightly
acknowledges that that during the month
of Ramadan we must recommit to peace
amamas can do that by accepting the deal
on the table a ceasefire can begin
immediately with the release of the
first hostage and so we must put
pressure on Hamas to do just that this
is the only path to securing a ceasefire
and the release of
hostages as we have all called for today
that is what this resolution means a
ceasefire of any duration must come with
the release of hostages this is the only
path thank you very much Mr
President I thank the representative of
the United States for their
statement I give the floor to the
representative of
Slovenia thank you very much Mr
President today is an important
day we're bringing you live pictures
from the United Nations where members of
the security Council have voted uh to
support a resolution uh which demands an
immediate ceasefire for the month of
Ramadan respected by all parties leading
to a lasting sustainable ceasefire the
vote for that was 14 in favor zero
against one exstension that was the US